README.md, before:

# videopipe-viz

**Explainability in Multimodal Video AI through visualisation**

> At RTL, we have a video AI pipeline (face detection, credit detection, subtitling, thumbnail selection, image aesthetics, …). The results come out as json files that can be read by professional video editing software. We would also like to demo our video AI pipeline to non-video editors who do not / cannot use a video editing software. To that end, we would like to smartly visualize results from the AI pipeline in the .mp4 video itself with moviepy and ffmpeg.
> To realise this project, we will give you access to our cloud platform and data. We also will help you conduct surveys with our video editors and stakeholders to find out whether burned-in AI in videos actively increases trust in AI solutions.

## requirements

- takes in an `.mp4` and a `.json` as input
- this doesn't need to be blazing fast: for now the idea is to create visualizations after a video is processed, not at streaming time 
- [optional] modular: different outputs of videopipe can be shown to the user on the same video  
- [optional] conduct a human evaluation on the explainability aspect

## some inspiration

- [mediapipe](https://github.com/google/mediapipe)
- Google's Cloud Video Intelligence, [here](https://youtu.be/hX71H78UYAc?t=845) and [here](https://youtu.be/hX71H78UYAc?t=974)
- annotation platforms. For example [Labelbox](https://docs.labelbox.com/docs/video-annotations), [label studio](https://github.com/heartexlabs/label-studio) (open source!) or [Diffgram](https://diffgram.readme.io/docs/video-introduction) (open source!)

## possible tools

- [ffmpeg](https://ffmpeg.org/)
- [moviepy](https://zulko.github.io/moviepy/) ([concatenate clips](https://zulko.github.io/moviepy/getting_started/compositing.html))

## references

**AI-Based Visualization of Voice Characteristics in Lecture Videos’ Captions**  
*Tim Schlippe, Katrin Fritsche, Ying Sun, Matthias Wölfel*  
International Conference on Artificial Intelligence in Education Technology 2023 – [[paper](https://link.springer.com/chapter/10.1007/978-981-19-8040-4_8)]

**A survey of surveys on the use of visualization for interpreting machine learning models**  
*Angelos Chatzimparmpas, Rafael M. Martins, Ilir Jusufi, Andreas Kerren*  
Information visualization 2020 – [[paper](https://journals.sagepub.com/doi/10.1177/1473871620904671)]

**Dynamic Object Scanning: Object-Based Elastic Timeline for Quickly Browsing First-Person Videos**  
*Seita Kayukawa, Keita Higuchi, Ryo Yonetani, Masanori Nakamura, Yoichi Sato, Shigeo Morishima*  
CHI 2018 (extended abstract) – [[paper](https://dl.acm.org/doi/pdf/10.1145/3170427.3186501)]

Commit message:

Add JSON table to the readme

README.md, after:

# videopipe-viz

**Explainability in Multimodal Video AI through visualisation**

> At RTL, we have a video AI pipeline (face detection, credit detection, subtitling, thumbnail selection, image aesthetics, …). The results come out as json files that can be read by professional video editing software. We would also like to demo our video AI pipeline to non-video editors who do not / cannot use a video editing software. To that end, we would like to smartly visualize results from the AI pipeline in the .mp4 video itself with moviepy and ffmpeg.
> To realise this project, we will give you access to our cloud platform and data. We also will help you conduct surveys with our video editors and stakeholders to find out whether burned-in AI in videos actively increases trust in AI solutions.

## requirements

- takes in an `.mp4` and a `.json` as input
- this doesn't need to be blazing fast: for now the idea is to create visualizations after a video is processed, not at streaming time 
- [optional] modular: different outputs of videopipe can be shown to the user on the same video  
- [optional] conduct a human evaluation on the explainability aspect

## some inspiration

- [mediapipe](https://github.com/google/mediapipe)
- Google's Cloud Video Intelligence, [here](https://youtu.be/hX71H78UYAc?t=845) and [here](https://youtu.be/hX71H78UYAc?t=974)
- annotation platforms. For example [Labelbox](https://docs.labelbox.com/docs/video-annotations), [label studio](https://github.com/heartexlabs/label-studio) (open source!) or [Diffgram](https://diffgram.readme.io/docs/video-introduction) (open source!)

## possible tools

- [ffmpeg](https://ffmpeg.org/)
- [moviepy](https://zulko.github.io/moviepy/) ([concatenate clips](https://zulko.github.io/moviepy/getting_started/compositing.html))

## overview of JSON output

The different JSON output files may need different visualization approaches. In the table below you can see the characteristics of each JSON and possible visualization solutions.


| JSON output             | Single frame | Spans multiple frames | Thresholding | SRT-fileable |       GIFable       |
|-------------------------|:------------:|:---------------------:|:------------:|:------------:|:-------------------:|
| Face detection          |       ✔      |   ✔ (for dense data)  |       ✔      |              | ✔ (for sparse data) |
| Subtitles               |              |           ✔           |              |       ✔      |                     |
| Shot boundaries         |       ✔      |                       |              |              |          ✔          |
| Text detection          |       ✔      |   ✔ (for dense data)  |              |              | ✔ (for sparse data) |
| Image Aesthetics        |       ✔      |                       |              |       ?      |          ✔          |
| Language identification |              |           ✔           |              |       ✔      |                     |
| Midroll marker          |       ✔      |                       |              |              |          ?          |
| Speech Gap              |              |           ✔           |              |       ✔      |                     |
| Still picker            |       ✔      |                       |              |              |          ✔          |
| Voice activity          |              |           ✔           |              |       ✔      |                     |
| Speech Recognition      |              |           ✔           |              |       ✔      |                     |

## references

**AI-Based Visualization of Voice Characteristics in Lecture Videos’ Captions**  
*Tim Schlippe, Katrin Fritsche, Ying Sun, Matthias Wölfel*  
International Conference on Artificial Intelligence in Education Technology 2023 – [[paper](https://link.springer.com/chapter/10.1007/978-981-19-8040-4_8)]

**A survey of surveys on the use of visualization for interpreting machine learning models**  
*Angelos Chatzimparmpas, Rafael M. Martins, Ilir Jusufi, Andreas Kerren*  
Information visualization 2020 – [[paper](https://journals.sagepub.com/doi/10.1177/1473871620904671)]

**Dynamic Object Scanning: Object-Based Elastic Timeline for Quickly Browsing First-Person Videos**  
*Seita Kayukawa, Keita Higuchi, Ryo Yonetani, Masanori Nakamura, Yoichi Sato, Shigeo Morishima*  
CHI 2018 (extended abstract) – [[paper](https://dl.acm.org/doi/pdf/10.1145/3170427.3186501)]
